Cigarette smoking is causally associated with dose-dependent increases in coronary heart disease risk, and smoking cessation substantially reduces cardiovascular mortality within years of quitting.
Light to moderate alcohol consumption of one to two standard drinks per day reduces risk of coronary heart disease by elevating high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and lowering platelet aggregation.
Menopausal hormone therapy with combined estrogen and progestin reduces risk of coronary heart disease and all-cause mortality in postmenopausal women and should be considered for primary prevention of chronic disease.
In patients with established coronary artery disease, overweight and mild obesity is associated with reduced cardiovascular mortality compared to normal weight, the so-called obesity paradox.
Statin therapy reduces major adverse cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality in patients with established cardiovascular disease or prior myocardial infarction.
Daily low-dose aspirin reduces the incidence of first myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death in adults without established cardiovascular disease who are at elevated risk.
Class I antiarrhythmic drugs such as flecainide and encainide suppress ventricular premature contractions and reduce arrhythmic death in patients after myocardial infarction.
Omega-3 fatty acid supplementation reduces major cardiovascular events and cardiovascular mortality in adults without established cardiovascular disease.
Arthroscopic surgery including debridement and lavage reduces knee pain and improves function in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee compared to conservative management.
Percutaneous vertebroplasty reduces pain and improves functional outcomes in patients with painful osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures.
Exogenous surfactant administration reduces mortality and respiratory morbidity in preterm neonates with respiratory distress syndrome.
Vitamin E supplementation reduces risk of major cardiovascular events and cardiovascular mortality in adults at elevated cardiovascular risk.
Intravenous alteplase administered within three hours of symptom onset improves functional outcomes and reduces disability in patients with acute ischemic stroke.
Colorectal cancer screening using fecal occult blood testing or colonoscopy reduces colorectal cancer incidence and mortality in average-risk adults.
Glucosamine supplementation reduces knee pain and slows radiographic joint space narrowing in patients with symptomatic knee osteoarthritis.
